---
Description: This page explains billing details for Semaphore and provides information on how our billing system works.
---

# Billing Overview

Semaphore Cloud offers flexible pricing plans that allow you to choose the resources you need to power your CI/CD solution. With no limits on the number of seats, machine minutes, or artifacts you use, you can easily scale your setup as your team grows.

## How Spending is Calculated

In addition to subscription cost, your monthly bill is determined by your usage of the following four groups of resources:

- **Machine Time** - the cost of using Semaphore Cloud machines (calculated by the minute)
- **Storage and Egress** - the cost of storing and downloading your build artifacts
- **Seats** - the cost of additional team members using Semaphore (charged only on Hybrid plans)
- **Add-ons** - additional features or services offered by Semaphore Cloud (e.g. priority support, a dedicated cache server)

You can monitor your monthly spending at any time on the Plans & Billing page within the app. Please note that spending data may take up to 24 hours to update.

### Machine Time

Our app charges you based on the machine type used and the amount of time spent running. The timer starts when a job enters the _running_ state and ends once the job is _finished_. Jobs that take less than one minute to complete will be rounded up to a full minute for billing purposes.

!!! info "Only _running_ time is billed"
    Please note that time spent in the _queue_ state due to concurrency limits or [pipeline queues](/essentials/pipeline-queues/) is not counted towards machine time used.

#### Price per machine type

Each cloud machine type has its own **price per minute**, listed in the table below:

| Generation | 2 vCPU (standard-2) | 4 vCPU (standard-4) | 8 vCPU (standard-8) |
| :--------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------: |
| E1 (Linux) |       $0.0075       |       $0.015        |        $0.03        |
| E2 (Linux) |        $0.01        |        $0.02        |          /          |
| F1 (Linux) |       $0.015        |        $0.03        |          /          |
| A1 (MacOS ARM64) |          /          |        $0.03        |          /          |
| A2 (MacOS Silicone) |          /          |        $0.09        |          /          |

#### Self-hosted agents spending

[Self-hosted agents](/ci-cd-environment/self-hosted-agents-overview/) are only available on Hybrid plans, and are not additionally charged in any way.

#### Monitoring and optimizing machine spending

Your machine time spending can escalate due to factors like increased usage, parallelism, switching to a more expensive machine type, and a drop in pipeline performance. To optimize your machine time spending, consider the following tips:

- **Limit Unnecessary Builds** - use [auto-cancel](/essentials/auto-cancel-previous-pipelines-on-a-new-push/) and [fail-fast](/fail-fast-stop-running-tests-on-the-first-failure/) features to run only the necessary jobs
- **Track Performance** - monitor your pipeline performance with the pipeline insights tab and regularly review your spending trends on the Plans & Billing page
- **Choose the Right Machine Type** - experiment with different machine types to find the best balance between performance and cost

### Storage & Egress

Storage and Egress costs are generated by the usage of [artifacts](/essentials/artifacts/):

- **Storage** - the amount of data stored in your artifact buckets is charged in GB per month--one "unit" represents 1 GB of data stored for one month
- **Egress** - network traffic generated by downloading artifacts within jobs or to an external location is charged in GB--one "unit" represents 1 GB of transferred data

#### Storage pricing

Artifact storage is the amount of data your Semaphore organization stores in artifacts. This is measured in GB per month.

The price for each GB of storage is **$0.07** per month.

!!! info ""
    **Example:** Say you store 20 GB of files as artifacts for 15 days. Semaphore will prorate this amount, so you would be charged the same for storing 20 GB of data for 15 days as you would for storing 10 GB of data for a month (20 * 0.5), assuming a 30-day month.

    _$0.07 (per GB per month) * 20 (GB) * 0.5 (15 days, or ½ of 30 day month) = $0.7_

#### Monitoring and optimizing storage spending

The best way to control storage spending is to ensure that you are not keeping unnecessary artifacts longer than they are needed.

**1. Upload only necessary files**  
The Artifact CLI allows you to upload entire directories with all of their content, but often only a few files are needed. One simple step is to review the contents of the artifacts you are uploading and make sure you're only storing what's necessary.

If you are using parallelism, parallel jobs can sometimes upload the same files as different artifacts. Check your parallel jobs to ensure that you are not storing duplicates.

**2. Set a retention policy**  
Most artifacts lose their value over time. For example, workflow and job artifacts are helpful when you’re debugging failing builds. Once the issue is resolved, however, you don't need them anymore.

Setting up an [artifact retention policy](/essentials/artifacts/#artifact-retention-policies) allows you to cut costs by ensuring that the old, unused artifacts are regularly cleaned up.

#### Egress pricing

Artifact egress is network traffic generated by artifact usage. This is expressed in GB, and the price for each GB of traffic is **$0.35**.

Artifact egress can be accrued via the following actions:

- Downloading artifacts inside Semaphore jobs (e.g. using `artifact pull` commands)
- Uploading artifacts to an external location (e.g. your local machine)

Note that uploading artifacts using the `artifact push` commands does not count towards egress spending.

!!! info ""
    **Example:**  
    Say you have a 10 MB file stored as a workflow artifact and you are pulling that file in 20 parallel jobs. This will generate 200 MB or 0.2 GB of traffic.

    _$0.35 (per GB) * 0.2 (GB) = $0.07_

#### Monitoring and optimizing Egress spending

To ensure that you are not generating unnecessary traffic, make sure to:

- Determine which jobs are downloading artifacts by searching for artifact pull commands in your .yml files
- Make sure that you aren't pulling unnecessary artifacts in your jobs
- Avoid pulling large artifacts in jobs if you are using parallelism
- Don’t use artifacts to cache job dependencies (we provide a [free cache](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/essentials/caching-dependencies-and-directories/#caching) with unlimited traffic)
- Don’t use artifacts to store and pull large Docker images (if you are on our _Enterprise plan_ ask our support team about the Semaphore Private Docker registry)

### Seats
Seats are only charged in Hybrid plans and do not accumulate any charges in Cloud plans.

Seats are calculated by aggregating all unique organization members and non-members during a billing period. Members are unique users who were assigned a role in the Semaphore organization and non-members are unique users who haven't been assigned a role but have triggered Semaphore builds through git commits.

#### Seat pricing

The cost of a seat depends on the plan you have chosen. At the beginning of each billing period, the number of members multiplied by the seat cost is added to your monthly bill. Your seat spending can increase during the month if you add more members to your organization or if non-member users trigger builds on Semaphore.

#### Monitoring and optimizing seat spending

If your plan is based on seats, you can monitor your seat usage in the billing section of the app. The _Seats page_ in this section displays all members and non-members who are counted towards your seat spending.

To optimize your seat spending, consider the following:

- Regularly review the members in your organization who have access to Semaphore on the _People page_ within the app
- Properly configure your project's [workflow triggers](/essentials/project-workflow-trigger-options/) to ensure that you are only building the necessary builds (e.g. skip builds for forked PRs)
- Regularly check the _Seat page_ in the billing section to stay up-to-date on your seat usage and spending

### Add-ons

Semaphore offers add-ons for Startup and Scaleup plans to enhance your CI/CD experience. These add-ons include:

- **Dedicated Cache Server** - Provides 400 GB of storage with 10 Gb/s network (ideal for workflows that require high sequential I/O, network performance, and disk throughput) cost: **$400,00 per month**
- **Dedicated Container Registry** - Offers 400 GB of storage with 10 Gb/s network (improving the speed of your Docker-based builds by storing your images in the same infrastructure that your jobs run on) cost: **$400,00 per month**
- **Advanced & Premium Support** - Enhances your technical and account support with options for **24x5** and **24x7 SLA** along with additional benefits

The cost of any enabled add-ons will be automatically added to your monthly bill at the start of each billing period.
