---
Description: This is the guide for the Dashboard YAML grammar used to define dashboards in Semaphore 2.0.
---

# Dashboards YAML Reference

This document shows you how to use the Dashboard YAML grammar to
define `dashboards` in Semaphore 2.0.

A Semaphore 2.0 `Dashboard` is an interface where you can define `widgets`, which 
you can use to overview the operations that take place in a Semaphore 2.0
organization.

More specifically, a `widget` is used for watching the activity of pipelines
and workflows according to certain criteria, defined using filters
that can help you narrow down displayed information.

Each dashboard is associated with a given organization. Therefore, in order to
view a specific dashboard, you should be connected to the organization to which
it belongs.

## Properties

This section will present all the properties of the Dashboard YAML grammar,
except the `widgets` property and the properties that are subordinate to
it, which are presented in the [widgets](#widgets) section.

### apiVersion

The `apiVersion` property specifies the API version of the Dashboard YAML
grammar that will be used in the current document. Different API versions
might have different features.

Here is a list of valid values for the `apiVersion` property: `v1alpha`.

### kind

The `kind` property defines the purpose of a YAML file. For a YAML file that
will be used to define a Dashboard, the value of the `kind` property should
be `Dashboard`.

Here is a list of valid values for the `kind` property: `Dashboard`.

### metadata

The `metadata` property defines the metadata of a Dashboard YAML file.
The list of supported properties includes `name`, `title`, `id`,
`create_time`, and `update_time` -- this might change in future versions.

#### name in metadata

The `name` property holds the name of a dashboard as it appears in the
URL of the dashboard, and should be unique among an organization's dashboards.

The value of `value` should only contain lowercase letters, dashes, and numbers.

#### title in metadata

The `title` property holds the title of the Dashboard as it appears in 
Semaphore 2.0's UI and can contain Unicode characters.

#### id

The value of the `id` property is automatically generated and assigned by
Semaphore 2.0 and is unique for each dashboard. It should not be edited.

#### create_time

The value of the `create_time` property is automatically generated by Semaphore
2.0 and is in the UNIX epoch format. It holds the time that a dashboard was created.

#### update_time

The value of the `update_time` property is automatically generated by Semaphore
2.0 and is in the UNIX epoch format. This value is automatically updated each
time you make a change to a dashboard.

### spec

The `spec` property is used to hold the `widgets` property.

## Widgets

The `widgets` property holds a list of widgets belonging to a given dashboard. 
Each widget defines the actual information that will be displayed on the
Semaphore 2.0 UI by the `name`, `type`, and `filters` properties.

### The filters property

The `filters` property holds a list of items that can help you filter
output to match certain criteria.

### name in widgets

The `name` property used in each list item of the `widgets` property defines
the name of the `widget` as appears in the UI of Semaphore 2.0.

### type

The value of `type` defines whether you want your widget to display information
about pipelines or workflows.

Here is a list of valid values for the `type` property: `list_workflows` and `list_pipelines`.

### Workflows list

In order to create a workflows list you need to use `list_workflows` as
the value of the `type` property. A workflows list displays information about
workflows.

The supported properties in `filters` for a workflows list are as follows:

- **project_id** (optional): allows the display of workflows from a given Semaphore
  2.0 project. You can find the project ID of an existing Semaphore 2.0 project
  using the `sem get project <name>` command.

- **branch** (optional): The `branch` property allows you to filter widget
  output by branch name (of the GitHub repository) for a Semaphore 2.0
  project. Note that the value of the `branch` property should be an exact
  match and that there is currently no support for regular expressions in the
  `branch` property.

If you are using the `list_worflows` type and you have no filters, the value of
`filters` should be `filters: {}`.

#### Workflows example

``` yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha
kind: Dashboard
metadata:
  name: my-dashboard
  title: My Dashboard
  id: eb0cc2c7-bbc9-41e4-9e3d-2eb622a673fb
  create_time: "1537888191"
  update_time: "1537889560"
spec:
  widgets:
  - name: Master branch from all projects
    type: list_workflows
    filters:
      branch: master
  - name: All projects on the current organization
    type: list_workflows
    filters: {}
```

### Pipelines list

In order to create a pipelines list you will need to use `list_pipelines` as
the value of the `type` property. A pipelines list displays information about
pipelines.

The supported properties in `filters` for a pipelines list are the following:

- **project_id** (required): restricts the widget output to pipelines from a
  single Semaphore 2.0 project. You can find the project ID of an existing
  Semaphore 2.0 project using the `sem get project <name>` command.

- **branch** (optional): The `branch` property allows you to filter widget
  output by specified branch name of a GitHub repository for the Semaphore
  2.0 project. Note that the value of the `branch` property should be an exact
  match and that there is currently no support for regular expressions in the
  `branch` property.

- **pipeline_file** (optional): the `pipeline_file` property allows you to
  filter generated output using the filename of a pipeline file that is
  being executed. Please note that the `pipeline_file` value should not be just
  the name of the pipeline file but the full path starting from the root
  directory of the GitHub repository. Therefore, the filename of the default
  pipeline is `.semaphore/semaphore.yml`.

#### Pipelines example

``` yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha
kind: Dashboard
metadata:
  name: my-dashboard
  title: My Dashboard
  id: eb0cc2c7-bbc9-41e4-9e3d-2eb622a673fb
  create_time: "1537445699"
  update_time: "1537445713"
spec:
  widgets:
  - name: Pipelines
    type: list_pipelines
    filters:
      project_id: 7384612f-e22f-4710-9f0f-5dcce85ba44b
      branch: demo
      pipeline_file: .semaphore/p1.yml
  - name: docs project pipelines
    type: list_pipelines
    filters:
      project_id: 0dd982e8-32f5-4037-983e-4de01ac7fb1e
```

## See also

- [sem CLI installation and reference](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/reference/sem-command-line-tool/)
